Release v0.6.0 (#38)
paritytech/soketto: RELEASING.md

# Release Checklist

These steps assume that you've checked out the Soketto repository and are in the root directory of it.

1. Ensure that everything you'd like to see released is on the `develop` branch.

> 2. Create a release branch off `develop`, for example `release-v0.6.0`. The branch name should start with `release`
>    in order that we can target commits with CI. You'll want to decide how far the version needs to be bumped 
>    based on the changes to date. If unsure what to bump the version to (eg is it a major, minor or patch 
>    release), check with the Parity Tools team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a release branch off `develop`, for example `release-v0.6.0`. The branch name should start with `release` so that we can target commits with CI. Decide how far the version needs to be bumped 
   based on the changes to date. If unsure what to bump the version to (e.g. is it a major, minor or patch 
   release), check with the Parity Tools team.
```

3. Check that you're happy with the current documentation.
   
   ```
   cargo doc --open
   ```

   CI checks for broken internal links at the moment. Optionally you can also confirm that any external links
   are still valid like so:

   ```
   cargo install cargo-deadlinks
   cargo deadlinks --check-http
   ```

   If there are minor issues with the documentation, they can be fixed in the release branch.

4. Bump the crate version in `Cargo.toml` to whatever was decided in step 2.

5. Update `CHANGELOG.md` to reflect the difference between this release and last. If you're unsure of
   what to add, check with the Tools team. 
   
   One way to gain some inspiration about what to write is by looking through the commit history since 

>    the last version (eg `git log --pretty LAST_VERSION_TAG..HEAD`).

Reviewer: 👍

>    Alternately, look at the commit history: https://github.com/paritytech/soketto/commits/develop.

Reviewer: I usually look at the closed PRs

Author: Ah whoops; I probably meant to say that insteead of saying "look through the commit history" twice!

Author: I tweaked the docs to suggest closed PRs first

6. Commit any of the above changes to the release branch and open a PR in GitHub with a base of `develop`.

> 7. Once the branch has been reviewed, we are ready to publish this branch to crates.io.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Once the branch has been reviewed and merged to `develop`, we are ready to publish this branch to crates.io.
```

…or is it `master`?

Author: I guess I see the release branch as a snapshot in time that we're confident/happy with, and think that we should release and publish the exact commit that we "signed off" rather than do any merging first (which, to develop, would risk bringing in unintended changes). 

Merging to master first; I could go either way on that! I don't see a strong reason to do so if we tag release commits, but *shrug*, could go either way :)

   
   First, do a dry run to make sure that things seem sane:
   ```
   cargo publish --dry-run
   ```

   If we're happy with everything, proceed with the release:
   ```
   cargo publish
   ```

8. If the release was successful, then tag the latest commit in our release branch so that somebody can

>    get back to this exact state in the future.

Reviewer: What we do on other projects is we tag `master` once the release PR is merged. I am actually not sure if that makes a difference, but I think we should be consistent with where we are tagging. Here in `soketto` we have the `develop`/`master` dichotomy so I'm even less sure what is right.

@niklasad1 thoughts?

Author: I was originally going to suggest merging to `master` (and we still could), but I guess it felt cleanest to release and tag the exact commit that we're  happy with in the release branch instead of merging that somewhere else first and releasing it (though you'd expect it to always be a clean merge to master).

One of the reasons to use `master` is to have a nice record of release commits, but our master branch is a bit messy and not super helpful for that I feel. Another reason is to run CI automatically to publish/deploy on merge to master, but we don't do that yet either.

Ultimately I'd be happy adding a "merge to master" step at the end if we liked ,but it doesn't serve much purpose it feels like at the moment (though maybe it is a better release record then just using the tags?).

Author: (tweaked process to merge to `master` then publish then tag then merge master up to `develop`)

   ```
   git tag v0.6.0 # use the version number you've just published to crates.io
   git push --tags
   ```

> 9. Merge the release branch back to develop so that we keep hold of any changes that we made there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Merge the release branch back to develop so that we keep track of any changes that we made there.

```

    so that we can target commits with CI. Decide how far the version needs to be bumped based on the changes to date.
    If unsure what to bump the version to (e.g. is it a major, minor or patch release), check with the Parity Tools team.

3.  Check that you're happy with the current documentation.

    ```
    cargo doc --open
    ```

    CI checks for broken internal links at the moment. Optionally you can also confirm that any external links
    are still valid like so:

    ```
    cargo install cargo-deadlinks
    cargo deadlinks --check-http
    ```

    If there are minor issues with the documentation, they can be fixed in the release branch.

4.  Bump the crate version in `Cargo.toml` to whatever was decided in step 2.

5.  Update `CHANGELOG.md` to reflect the difference between this release and last. If you're unsure of
    what to add, check with the Tools team.

    One way to gain some inspiration on what to write is to look at the [closed PRs](https://github.com/paritytech/soketto/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed).

    You can also look through the commit history to find the code changes since the last release (eg `git log --pretty LAST_VERSION_TAG..HEAD`).

> 6.  Commit any of the above changes to the release branch and open a PR in GitHub with a base of `master`.

Author: We'll ultiamtely want to merge to `master`, but the options here are either:

- initial base branch of `master`: we'll see all code changes since last release as well as changes in the release branch.
- initial base branch of `develop`: we'll only see changes in the release branch (version bump, changelog tweaks) but no code changes. We'll need to remember to change to `master` before merging.

What do people prefer? Fewer changes for easy review (but have to remember to change back to master), or all changes since last release?

Reviewer: My vote is for "fewer changes", i.e. initial base branch is `develop`.

cc @maciejhirsz @niklasad1

Author: ^ I'll tweak the notes to suggest that option :)

> 7.  Once the branch has been reviewed and passes CI, it can be merged to `master`.

Reviewer: It should be merged to **both** master and develop right?

Author: Yup; for now I put the "merge back to develop" at the end, and from `master` (I guess just incase we end up having issues publishing on master and need to change anything else)

8.  Now, we're ready to publish the release to crates.io.

    Checkout `master`, ensuring we're looking at that latest merge (`git pull`).

    Next, do a dry run to make sure that things seem sane:
    ```
    cargo publish --dry-run
    ```

    If we're happy with everything, proceed with the release:
    ```
    cargo publish
    ```

9.  If the release was successful, then tag the commit that we released in the `master` branch with the
    version that we just released, for example:

    ```
    git tag v0.6.0 # use the version number you've just published to crates.io, not this one
    git push --tags
    ```

> 10. Merge the `master` branch back to develop so that we keep track of any changes that we made on

Reviewer: ah I see now, yes, this should work too

# Release Checklist

> These steps assume that you've checked out the Socketto repository and are in the root directory of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These steps assume that you've checked out the Soketto repository and are in the root directory of it.
```

1. Ensure that everything you'd like to see released is on the `develop` branch.

2. Create a release branch off `develop`, for example `jsdw-release-v0.6.0`. You'll want to decide how 
   far the version needs to be bumped based on the changes to date. If unsure what to bump the version 
   to (eg is it a major, minor or patch release), check with the Parity Tools team.

2. Make sure that the tests pass (also checking that all examples compile).
   
   ```
   cargo test
   cargo test --examples
   ```

   If anything fails, it's likely worth fixing the failures in a PR and postponing the release. Minor 
   issues can be fixed on this release branch.

3. Check that you're happy with the current documentation.
   
   ```
   cargo doc --open
   ```
 
   It's probably a good idea to check for broken links in the documentation, which
   can be done using the third party tool `cargo-deadlinks`:

   ```

>    cargo install cargo-deadlinks

Reviewer 2: 👍

>    cargo install cargo-deadlinks

Reviewer 3: does this check `rustdoc` links too or just that `http links` works?

[in jsonrpsee we have this check](https://github.com/paritytech/jsonrpsee/blob/master/.github/workflows/ci.yml#L45-#L46) but if `cargo-deadlinks` does this better we might want to use it too.

Reviewer 3: I think we should enforce this in the CI instead.

Author: Oooh, I didn't realise that you could check internal links with `cargo doc`!

`cargo deadlinks` checks external links as well as internal links by making HTTP requests, but it is an extra thing to depend on.

I def agree about CI: I adapted the CI stuff from `jsonrpsee` here: https://github.com/paritytech/soketto/pull/40 (no cargo deadlinks, just the build-in check for now). If I can get that merged in a timely fashion I'll merge it in here and update the release docs accordingly. Otherwise, this next release will have to be "manual", and I can tweak the docs when the CI PR does merge :)
